.TH "Advanced Features" 3 "28 Jan 2009" "Version Patchlevel 20" "CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Advanced Features \- Debugging and Utility Functions.  

.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFD_CFDUMP\fP   0"
.br
.RI "\fIDump Mask Minimal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFD_LIBHEAD\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fIDump option CFLIB header. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFD_COLHEAD\fP   2"
.br
.RI "\fIDump option Column headers. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFD_SRCFLAGS\fP   4"
.br
.RI "\fIDump option Source flag description. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFD_DEFAULT\fP   CFD_COLHEAD|CFD_SRCFLAGS"
.br
.RI "\fIDump Mask Default. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfdump\fP (FILE *fout)"
.br
.RI "\fIDebugging Function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfdinichk\fP (\fBCONFIG\fP *set)"
.br
.RI "\fIDebugging Function (\fBexperimental\fP). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBcfhomexp\fP (char *name)"
.br
.RI "\fIExpand \fC~\fP or \fC~user\fP in parameter content. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Debugging and Utility Functions. 

.IP "\(bu" 2
Modes for \fBcfdump()\fP 
.PP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int cfdump (FILE * fout)"
.PP
Debugging Function. 
.PP
Dump CFLIB DB content to \fCfout\fP 
.PP
Configuration options:
.PP
Set integer bitmask CFLIB variable \fB'CF_DUMPVERB'\fP to
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
= \fBCFD_CFDUMP\fP : Minimal 
.IP "\(bu" 2
& \fBCFD_LIBHEAD\fP : CFLIB header 
.IP "\(bu" 2
& \fBCFD_COLHEAD\fP : Column headers 
.IP "\(bu" 2
& \fBCFD_SRCFLAGS\fP : Source flag description 
.IP "\(bu" 2
= \fBCFD_DEFAULT\fP : Default dump verbosity
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfout\fP Pointer to File opened for writing or \fCstdout/\fCstderr/\fP.\fP..
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC>0\fP : Number of entries in CFLIB DB 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No configuration database available 
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfdinichk (\fBCONFIG\fP * set)"
.PP
Debugging Function (\fBexperimental\fP). 
.PP
Initialize CFLIB DB using the default given by \fCset\fP, checking validity and plausibility of entries
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIset\fP Pointer to initializing CONFIG-Array
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : No error occurred 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC!=0\fP : An error occurred
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Make \fBcfdinichk()\fP work as reliable, complete tool with much more testing and \fBSpecial Options Mask\fP validation!
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* cfhomexp (char * name)"
.PP
Expand \fC~\fP or \fC~user\fP in parameter content. 
.PP
This function is used by default when reading \fBConfiguration Files\fP and on initialization of parameters with the Special Option Flag \fBCF_EXPHOME\fP set.
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
The environment is checked for the variables \fCLOGNAME\fP or \fCUSER\fP, if no user name is given ('~/....')
.IP "\(bu" 2
The \fCpasswd\fP file is searched for the users home directory, if possible
.IP "\(bu" 2
Otherwise the environment variable \fCHOME\fP is checked
.IP "\(bu" 2
If all that fails, \fC~\fP will be omitted, \fC~user\fP will expand to './user'
.PP
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIname\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : an error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Entry's Content is a NULL Pointer. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Memory allocation for Configuration Failed. 
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC!=NULL\fP : String pointer to original or expanded filename 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library from the source code.
