.TH "Error Handling" 3 "29 Jan 2009" "Version Patchlevel 20" "CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Error Handling \- Error Codes, Functions and Structures.  

.PP
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBCONFERR\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILibrary Internal: Error List Item. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_INIT\fP   0"
.br
.RI "\fIINITialize error input. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_OK\fP   0"
.br
.RI "\fINo error / everything OKay. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NEP\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fINew Entry successfully Put into DB. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_EXIT\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fIFinish error input. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_ORA\fP   20"
.br
.RI "\fIOption Requires an Argument. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_UKO\fP   25"
.br
.RI "\fIUnKnown Option. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_FNF\fP   30"
.br
.RI "\fIFile Not Found, read access error. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NSE\fP   40"
.br
.RI "\fINo Section specifier End found, missing ']'. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NSC\fP   50"
.br
.RI "\fINo private Setfile Configured. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_WAE\fP   60"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite Access Error. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_IFP\fP   61"
.br
.RI "\fIInvalid Filename entry for Private setfile. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_EWN\fP   70"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry Without Name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_ICF\fP   80"
.br
.RI "\fIInvalid Combination of Flags. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_EWC\fP   90"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry Without Content. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_UOS\fP   100"
.br
.RI "\fIUnlikely Option Specifier. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_IFC\fP   110"
.br
.RI "\fIInvalid Flag Combination. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NLE\fP   120"
.br
.RI "\fINo Last Entry flag found. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_TIN\fP   130"
.br
.RI "\fIError reTurn from stdIN query. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_EFE\fP   140"
.br
.RI "\fIEmpty string in content for Filename Entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_USG\fP   200"
.br
.RI "\fIEntries missing: USaGge advice. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_URI\fP   210"
.br
.RI "\fIUnResolved Item (CF_MUST was set!). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_FBF\fP   -500"
.br
.RI "\fIFile Backup Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_BMF\fP   -510"
.br
.RI "\fIBackup: Memory allocation Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_BOF\fP   520"
.br
.RI "\fIBackup: Open source file Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_BBF\fP   530"
.br
.RI "\fIBackup: open target Backup file Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_BRF\fP   540"
.br
.RI "\fIBackup: Rename Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_BWF\fP   550"
.br
.RI "\fIBackup: Write Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NCA\fP   -10"
.br
.RI "\fINo Configuration database Available. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NEA\fP   -20"
.br
.RI "\fINo Entry with that name Available. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_NSS\fP   -30"
.br
.RI "\fINo Source/origin is Set. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_ECP\fP   -40"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry's Content is a NULL Pointer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_MEF\fP   -100"
.br
.RI "\fIMemory allocation in Error routine Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_MCF\fP   -200"
.br
.RI "\fIMemory allocation for Configuration Failed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_INF\fP   -9999"
.br
.RI "\fIInteger iNquiry Failed (?!). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCFE_RNF\fP   -999.999"
.br
.RI "\fIReal/float iNquiry Failed (?!). \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfputerr\fP (int ecode, char *string,...)"
.br
.RI "\fIInit, exit or append to Error List. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfgeterr\fP (char *string, size_t len)"
.br
.RI "\fIError Code and Message Inquiry Function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBcfclearerr\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIFree all entries in error list. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfreverr\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIRevert order of entries in error list from last->first to first->last. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCONFERR\fP * \fB_cferr\fP = NULL"
.br
.RI "\fILibrary Internal: Error List Pointer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fB_errcnt\fP = 0"
.br
.RI "\fILibrary Internal: Error List Counter. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Error Codes, Functions and Structures. 

.IP "\(bu" 2
Error Codes and their mnemonic descriptions
.PP
.PP
\fBBug\fP
.RS 4
There are still errors without entry in error stack
.RE
.PP
- Library Internal Error Variables
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
Error Functions 
.PP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int cfputerr (int ecode, char * string,  ...)"
.PP
Init, exit or append to Error List. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIecode\fP Error Code of the error that occurred
.br
\fIstring\fP Error message format string. Giving it a \fCNULL\fP pointer results in an empty error message string
.br
\fI...\fP Arguments list according to format string
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : A fatal error occurred (malloc failed) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC>0\fP : Number of errors in error list 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfgeterr (char * string, size_t len)"
.PP
Error Code and Message Inquiry Function. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIstring\fP Pointer to a string, to which the error message should be copied. Giving it a \fCNULL\fP pointer will omit message return
.br
\fIlen\fP Size of string, if \fC0\fP \fBCF_MAXERRSTR\fP will be used
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : if no error is available, everything is alright 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC!=0\fP : error code of the next error in list 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "void cfclearerr (void)"
.PP
Free all entries in error list. 
.PP

.SS "int cfreverr (void)"
.PP
Revert order of entries in error list from last->first to first->last. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC>=0\fP : Number of errors in error list 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : Inconsistency with old error count, absolute value is new error counter 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library from the source code.
