.TH "Information Retrieval" 3 "29 Jan 2009" "Version Patchlevel 20" "CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Information Retrieval \- These functions and macros read entries from an initialized CFLIB database.  

.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfget\fP(a)   cfgetent(a,0)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet value (content) of named entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetstr\fP(a)   ((char *)cfgetent(a,CF_STR))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for String in content of named entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetnum\fP(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_INT))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for Integer value in content of named entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetreal\fP(a)   (*(float *)cfgetent(a,CF_REAL))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for Float (Real) value in content of named entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetflag\fP(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_FLAG))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for Flag value in content of named entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfflaginq\fP(a, b)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_FLGINQ|(31&b)))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for Bit set in entry's Special Options Fag \fBCONFIG::flag\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetsrc\fP(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_SRC))"
.br
.RI "\fIInquire CFLIB DB for Source of named entry's content. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetres\fP()   ((char *)cfgetent('',CF_RESID))"
.br
.RI "\fIGet next Residual Command Line Argument from CFLIB DB. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBcfgetcpr\fP()   'CFLIB (c) 1994-2009 Stefan Habermehl'"
.br
.RI "\fIGet Copyright Notice. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBcfgetent\fP (char *name, \fBCFFLAGTYP\fP typ)"
.br
.RI "\fILibrary internal function, use appropriate Macro functions! \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfgetvers\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet Library Version/Patchlevel. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBcfgetsubvers\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet Library Subversion Details. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBcfgetusg\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet Usage Message for (Terminal) Output. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
These functions and macros read entries from an initialized CFLIB database. 

The exact name of the required parameter must be given as argument, where indicated. 
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define cfget(a)   cfgetent(a,0)"
.PP
Get value (content) of named entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Depending on configured type, see \fBcfgetent()\fP and Macro Definitions! 
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetstr(a)   ((char *)cfgetent(a,CF_STR))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for String in content of named entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No configuration database available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No entry of this name available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content is really \fCNULL\fP, Check that with \fBcfgetflag()\fP !!
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
Any other : Pointer to string in content of entry name 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetnum(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_INT))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for Integer value in content of named entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCFE_INF\fP : Integer inquiry failed because of
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No configuration database available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No entry of this name available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content doesn't begin with digit
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content is a \fCNULL\fP pointer
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content is really \fBCFE_INF\fP, Check that with \fBcfgetstr()\fP !!
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
Any other : Integer value for named entry 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetreal(a)   (*(float *)cfgetent(a,CF_REAL))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for Float (Real) value in content of named entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCFE_RNF\fP : Real/float value inquiry failed because of
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No configuration database available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No entry of this name available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content doesn't begin with digit or signum (+/-)
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content is a \fCNULL\fP pointer
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Content is really \fBCFE_RNF\fP, Check that with \fBcfgetstr()\fP !!
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
Any other : Float value for named entry 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetflag(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_FLAG))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for Flag value in content of named entry. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCTRUE\fP (1) : Flag is set
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCFALSE\fP (0) : Flag is not set
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : An error occurred: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No configuration database available 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NEA\fP : No entry of this name available 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_ECP\fP : Entry's content is a \fCNULL\fP pointer 
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfflaginq(a, b)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_FLGINQ|(31&b)))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for Bit set in entry's Special Options Fag \fBCONFIG::flag\fP. 
.PP
Debugging Function
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name 
.br
\fIb\fP Bit Offset, \fC0<=b<=31\fP 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCTRUE\fP (\fC1\fP) : Flag is set
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCFALSE\fP (\fC0\fP) : Flag is not set
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : An error occurred: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No Configuration database Available.  
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NEA\fP : No Entry with that name Available.  
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetsrc(a)   (*(int *)cfgetent(a,CF_SRC))"
.PP
Inquire CFLIB DB for Source of named entry's content. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIa\fP Entry's name
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0-6\fP : Source of entry's content: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC0\fP : \fBcfputstr()\fP call 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC1\fP : Command line / Arguments 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC2\fP : Environment 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC3\fP : Private Configuration File 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC4\fP : System Configuration File 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC5\fP : Default setting 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fC6\fP : Interactive input (query)
.PP

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : An error occurred: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No configuration database available 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NEA\fP : No entry of this name available 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NSS\fP : No source set (should not happen!) 
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetres()   ((char *)cfgetent('',CF_RESID))"
.PP
Get next Residual Command Line Argument from CFLIB DB. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No more residual arguments available
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
Any other : Pointer to string content
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBResidual Items\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define cfgetcpr()   'CFLIB (c) 1994-2009 Stefan Habermehl'"
.PP
Get Copyright Notice. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Pointer to Copyright Message String 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void* cfgetent (char * name, \fBCFFLAGTYP\fP typ)"
.PP
Library internal function, use appropriate Macro functions! 
.PP
Inquire configuration database for content of entry name
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIname\fP Entry's name 
.br
\fItyp\fP Expected/required type of content: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : Get type from entry's flag 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_INT\fP : Integer 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_REAL\fP : Real 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_FLAG\fP : Flag 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_STR\fP : String 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_SRC\fP : Source 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_FLGINQ\fP : Bit in entry flag (bit no. in lowest bytes) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_RESID\fP : Residual argument 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Anything else : String
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
for \fBCF_STR\fP, \fBCF_RESID\fP or default:
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : An error occurred or nothing available:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No configuration database available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No entry of this name available
.IP "  \(bu" 4
The entry's content is really \fCNULL\fP, Check that with \fBcfgetflag()\fP !!
.IP "  \(bu" 4
No more residual argument (for \fBCF_RESID\fP)
.PP

.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
any other pointer to string in content of entry name
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
for others: Pointer to return values of the corresponding macro function 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfgetvers (void)"
.PP
Get Library Version/Patchlevel. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC>0\fP : Libary Patchlevel 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<=0\fP : Error 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* cfgetsubvers (void)"
.PP
Get Library Subversion Details. 
.PP
The Patchlevel returned by this function should match \fBPatchlevel\fP in the public include file \fBcf.h\fP
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Libary Patchlevel and Subversion (Source Revision marked by library internal header file \fIcflib.h\fP.
.RE
.PP
The return value is 'burned' into the library executable and looks like: 
.PP
.nf
CFLIB PL 20 $LastChangedRevision: 22 $ 
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "char* cfgetusg (void)"
.PP
Get Usage Message for (Terminal) Output. 
.PP
There are two flavours:
.PP
1. Let CFLIB do the job: Usage message is generated based on settings for commandline parsing and \fBSpecial Options Mask\fP found in the database
.PP
2. Deliver your own Usage Message: Just set the \fBCF_USAGE\fP Flag in the \fBSpecial Options Mask\fP of one parameter in the database to get a custom usage message (from hardcoded default, configuration file or environment). The delivered custom message string is taken as a format string for the printf() function: Use '%s' in the message string to have the program name inserted that CFLIB got from the default parameter \fB'CF_PRGNAME'\fP which by default is set to the name of the running program from the commandline at startup.
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.IP "\(bu" 2
Pointer to usage string
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : An error occurred: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
No Configuration database Available.  
.IP "  \(bu" 4
malloc() for usage string failed
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBCF_MAXUSAGE\fP : Maximum string length for usage string.  
.PP
\fBCF_USG_DEFCOLS\fP : Default terminal width for usage string.  
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library from the source code.
