.TH "Setting and Saving the Configuration" 3 "31 Jan 2009" "Version Patchlevel 20" "CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Setting and Saving the Configuration \- Set/Update Parameter Values or Save a Configuration File.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfputstr\fP (char *name, char *content)"
.br
.RI "\fIUpdate or Add Parameter \fIname\fP with string \fIcontent\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfputtime\fP (\fBCFFLAGTYP\fP td)"
.br
.RI "\fISet all Time and/or Date entries in CFLIB DB to \fInow\fP or \fItoday\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfnosave\fP (char *name, const char *onoff)"
.br
.RI "\fIAlter or query the \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP Flag of Parameter \fIname\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBcfsave\fP (char *file, const char *savemode)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite configuration data to a Configuration File or \fCstdout\fP. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Set/Update Parameter Values or Save a Configuration File. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int cfputstr (char * name, char * content)"
.PP
Update or Add Parameter \fIname\fP with string \fIcontent\fP. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIname\fP \fBParameter Name\fP 
.br
\fIcontent\fP New (String) Content
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCFE_NEP\fP : New Entry successfully Put into DB.  
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : Entry updated successfully 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<0\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_MCF\fP : Memory allocation for Configuration Failed.  
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfputtime (\fBCFFLAGTYP\fP td)"
.PP
Set all Time and/or Date entries in CFLIB DB to \fInow\fP or \fItoday\fP. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItd\fP Target Selection Mask: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_TIME\fP : Set Time 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_DATE\fP : Set Date 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_TD\fP : Set Time and Date
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC>0\fP : Number of entries updated successfully 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC<=0\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_MCF\fP : Memory allocation for Configuration Failed. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NEA\fP : No Entry with that name Available.  
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfnosave (char * name, const char * onoff)"
.PP
Alter or query the \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP Flag of Parameter \fIname\fP. 
.PP
When the configuration database is saved to a configuration file, the function \fBcfsave()\fP will exclude all items with the \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP flag set from the output.
.PP
The \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP flag can be set in the Special Option Mask \fBCONFIG::flag\fP for every entry in the \fBConfiguration Initializer\fP given to \fBcfinit()\fP or \fBcfstart()\fP or later be set with this function for parameters in the current configuration database \fB_conf\fP
.PP
\fBResidual Items\fP will have the \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP flag set by default.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIname\fP Entry's name
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC''\fP : All entries
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : All hardcoded entries
.PP
.br
\fIonoff\fP 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_FLAG_ON\fP : Set Flag 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBCF_FLAG_OFF\fP : Delete Flag 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC'i'\fP : Inquire Flag
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : Entry updated successfully / Flag is OFF (for \fC'i'\fP) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC1\fP : Flag is ON (for \fC'i'\fP) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC!=0\fP or \fC1\fP : An Error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NEA\fP : No Entry with that name Available.  
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "int cfsave (char * file, const char * savemode)"
.PP
Write configuration data to a Configuration File or \fCstdout\fP. 
.PP
Entries with the \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP flag will be excluded from the output. Use \fBcfnosave()\fP to inquire or alter that flag for an entry.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfile\fP 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
<\fIstring>\fP : Name of regular file to be opened 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC''\fP : Write configuration to \fCstdout\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCNULL\fP : Private configuration file will be overwritten or created, if an appropriate entry exists
.PP
.br
\fIsavemode\fP File open mode: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC'w'\fP : Overwrite 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC'a'\fP : Append
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC0\fP : Configuration has been saved to file successfully 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fC!=0\fP : An error occurred:
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_NCA\fP : No Configuration database Available. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_IFP\fP : Invalid Filename entry for Private setfile. 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCFE_WAE\fP : Write Access Error.  
.PP

.PP
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library from the source code.
