.TH "Special Options Mask" 3 "31 Jan 2009" "Version Patchlevel 20" "CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Special Options Mask \- The \fB'Special Options Mask'\fP is a Bitmask of type \fBCFFLAGTYP\fP in Configuration Entry Structure Member \fBCONFIG::flag\fP containing Type, Instruction and Information Flags for a Parameter.  

.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_LAST\fP   0x0001"
.br
.RI "\fILast entry in settings array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_PATH\fP   0x0002"
.br
.RI "\fISearch Path (for FindFile feature). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SETFILE\fP   0x0004"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is Private Configuration File. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SYS_SETFILE\fP   0x0008"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is System Configuration File. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SECTION\fP   0x0010"
.br
.RI "\fISection in Configuration File. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_PRGNAME\fP   0x0020"
.br
.RI "\fIRunning Program's Name from commandline. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_TIME\fP   0x0040"
.br
.RI "\fITime string. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_DATE\fP   0x0080"
.br
.RI "\fIDate string. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_PUT\fP   0x0100"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Function Call. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_ARG\fP   0x0200"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Commandline Argument. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_ENV\fP   0x0400"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Environment Variable. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_PRIV\fP   0x0800"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Private Configuration File. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_SYS\fP   0x1000"
.br
.RI "\fISource: System Configuration File. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_DEF\fP   0x2000"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Built-in Default. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SET_QRY\fP   0x4000"
.br
.RI "\fISource: Interactive Terminal Input. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_NO_OPT_ARG\fP   0x10000"
.br
.RI "\fICommandline argument not followig an option. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_CONCAT\fP   0x20000"
.br
.RI "\fIArgument is concatenated to option. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_IGN_ENV\fP   0x40000"
.br
.RI "\fIDo not check environment for variable. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_QUERY\fP   0x80000"
.br
.RI "\fIAsk the user for unresolved item after configuration parsing. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_STR\fP   0x100000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is String. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_INT\fP   0x200000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is Integer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_FLAG\fP   0x400000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is Flag. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_REAL\fP   0x800000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is Float. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_FINDFILE\fP   0x1000000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry is filename to be searched for in the path. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_MUST\fP   0x2000000"
.br
.RI "\fIEntry may not be empty (\fCNULL\fP or ''). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_RESID\fP   0x4000000"
.br
.RI "\fIResidual/additional entry from commandline/setfile/cfput. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_USAGE\fP   0x8000000"
.br
.RI "\fIUsage Message format string. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_EXPHOME\fP   0x10000000"
.br
.RI "\fIExpand Home Directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_MALLOC\fP   0x20000000"
.br
.RI "\fISpace for entry's content was mallocated. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_FORCED\fP   0x40000000"
.br
.RI "\fISetting has been forced (already). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_NOSAVE\fP   0x80000000"
.br
.RI "\fIDon't include in savefile / mark entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_SRC\fP   (CF_INT|CF_FLAG)"
.br
.RI "\fIType for source/origin inquiry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_FLGINQ\fP   (CF_STR|CF_FLAG)"
.br
.RI "\fIType for options mask inquiry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCF_TD\fP   (CF_DATE|CF_TIME)"
.br
.RI "\fIDate or Time entry. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef unsigned long \fBCFFLAGTYP\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISpecial Options Mask Type. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The \fB'Special Options Mask'\fP is a Bitmask of type \fBCFFLAGTYP\fP in Configuration Entry Structure Member \fBCONFIG::flag\fP containing Type, Instruction and Information Flags for a Parameter. 

.IP "\(bu" 2
Special CFLIB properties: \fBCFLIB Parameters\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
Source/Origin: \fBParsing Levels\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
Initialization options: \fBParsing Levels in the Initialization Process\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
Type/Interpretation Flags: \fBParameter Data Types\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBSpecial Processing Instructions\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBSpecial Handling Instructions\fP
.IP "\(bu" 2
Information/Status markers: 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCF_LAST\fP must appear in the \fBConfiguration Initializer\fP 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCF_RESID\fP marks one of the \fBResidual Items\fP 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
\fBCF_MALLOC\fP and \fBCF_FORCED\fP are for library internal use 
.PP

.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for CFLIB - Flexible Configuration Library from the source code.
